#summary Some tips to make your pages well-formatted.

<font size="5"> *Introduction* </font>
<wiki:comment>"Introduction" is not done as a heading, because I don't want it to be displayed in the table of content below</wiki:comment>

_[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki Wiki]_ is a great tool to manage knowledge and share information among people. It introduces a special _[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markup_language markup language]_ in order to present information in a well-formated and structured form.

_Google Code hoisting_ provides wiki service with its own simplified markup language. The detailed description of its syntax can be found in [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax this manual]. Please, read it carefully before start modifying or creating wiki pages.

The last part of this page presents some tips and rules that can be useful for wiki formating and are not covered by [http://code.google.com/p/support/wiki/WikiSyntax the standard manual]. The whole list of them can be found below:

<wiki:toc max_depth="2"/>
<br /><wiki:comment>it is just an empty line</wiki:comment>
----

== How to add an empty line? ==
In order to separate paragraphs just put one empty line in the markup:

{{{
Text of paragraph 1.

Text of paragraph 2.
}}}

It will be displayed as the following:

<table border="0">
<td>
Text of paragraph 1.<br />Text of paragraph 2.
</td>
</table>

However, even if you add more empty line in the markup still only one will be displayed. Also, empty lines are not displayed between text, delimiters, tables and other objects.

If you want to add several empty lines use HTML tag [http://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_br.asp <br />] as many times as you need:

{{{
Text of paragraph 1.
<br /><br /><wiki:comment> add 2 empty lines</wiki:comment>
Text of paragraph 2.
}}}

The previous code will be displayed as following:

<table border="0">
<td>
Text of paragraph 1.<br /><br />Text of paragraph 2.
</td>
</table>

In fact, this tag can be useful too add an empty line before a horizontal rule. Try the two following examples and see the difference:
{{{
Text section 1
----
Text section 2
}}}
{{{
Text section 1
<br />
----
Text section 2
}}}

||<font color="red">*Note:*</font> don't use `<br />` tag to create a new paragraph! Use the standard wiki syntax: just add an empty line in the markup.||